So let's power on the PC and open up a console and see if it now receives an IP address so I can fake
ethe 0.
Notice the difference.
It's now received a global IP address.
2001 Kahlon face the network portion is that followed by some zeros.
This is the host portion which you'll notice is the same as the link local host portion and is based
on the MAC address of the host.
So back in Wireshark
there all the rot advertisements we saw previously and scrolling down we see a broader solicitation
message to F-F 0 to call on column two from a host with a MAC address ending in six a Forby.
So this year six A for B going to all routers on the local segment.
There's the MAC address which is the layer to MAC address for IP version 6 multicast.
In this case for a 5 0 2 call on call on 2 and we can see that the multicast was sent from the host.
There is the link local address as shown here in y shock.
So the host is sending a router solicitation to all writers in the local segment and the writer replies
back to all hosts on the local segment.
There is the IP version 6 multicast address from the router to the IP version 6 multicast laya to address
sources the router destination is F-F 0 2 column column 1.
It's a rotten advertisement.
And the is once again telling the host it's a local Mac address there's the linked layer address.
Here's the empty you mean here is the IP version 6 Prefect's.
So the host has done amicably learnt the address.
So there was an example of slack.
What I'll do now is add a nother address on the router.
So let's call that 2001 Kahlon 0 1 0 1 so at an address
like this and let's see if the Rodda advertises that to the host notice there's the advertisement saying
to all hosts on the local segment and back on the PC and back on the PC I have config eith zero.
What we should notice is it after a while we'll learn that network.
And there you go.
After a while the host has learnt that new address set can do the host paying the router show run interface
gigabit to 0 0 shows us the two IP version 6 addresses on the Rodda so paying 2001 face code on column
1.
Notice I'm using the wrong protocol I need to use ping 6 and that ping now succeeds.
So Ping 6 2001 0 1 0 1 colon column 1 that ping also works on the Radu we could do a de-bunk
IPV 6 ICMP and I can do the ping to face once again.
And notice we see that output on the router I could request was received from a source with this IP
version 6 address.
Wife can fake it 0 shows us that IP address as configured on the PC notice it ends in 6.
A forby the destination of the echo request was the router and the router not sends a reply.
There is the IP version 6 echo request IP version 6 echo reply.
He has a Rodda advertisement sent from the local router to the destination.
F.f 0 2 colon colon 1 all nodes on the segment.
So there was a demonstration of how slack and Raadt advertisements and Rodda solicitation messages can
be used to automatically allocate networks to hosts.
This is once again using the neighborhood discovery protocol or a.p.